So now let's talk
about Amazon Redshift security.
And first, when you talk
about the database hierarchy,
so we have superusers in Redshift
and they have the same permissions
as the database owners for all databases.
So for example, a superuser is the admin user,
which is created automatically
when you launch the Redshift cluster.
To create superusers, you must be a superuser.
Then we have users.
Users can only be created and dropped
by a superuser and users can own databases
and database objects such as tables.
So the users can be granted permissions
on these objects and they can also grant permission
to other database users, groups, and schemas.
The users will be granted permissions
in two ways, either explicitly
by having those permissions directly assigned
to the account to the user, or implicitly,
by being member of a group
that is granted permissions.
So this should be of no surprise
and everything should make sense so far.
Then we have groups.
So a group is a collection of users
that can be collectively assigned permissions.
It's very good once you want
to have streamlined security maintenance.
You have databases.
A database is a collection of one or more schema.
And so when a user creates a database,
the user becomes the owner of the database.
The superusers though, will have also rights
on the database because they are admins.
Then what is schema?
A schema is a collection of database tables
and other database objects.
So schema is used to group these objects
under a common name and then users
can be granted access to a single schema
or multiple schemas.
So if we have a look, again as a diagram,
we have the superusers of our Redshift cluster.
We have several users that can be separated
or grouped together.
And then we have databases that can be created
by users that will be the owner of this database.
And within it we have schemas
and in schemas you may have tables
and other things.
So hopefully this diagram makes sense
and puts everything in perspective.
Now, how do we do authorization
within the database in database security?
So the users commonly use a login
to login into your database.
It's a username and a password.
And you also have the option to not use this
and instead to use IAM credentials
to allow users to connect to your database.
So very similar to RDS,
there is a GetClusterCredentials API operations
to obtain temporary database user credentials.
So if a user has proper IAM permissions,
then they can login as an existing database user
and then you'll get a temporary username and password.
And so we'll get the credentials,
we'll get the temporary credentials out of it,
and then we can connect to our Redshift cluster.
So this is to simplify security.
And then once you have temporary user credentials
for an existing database user, we can choose
to disable the user's password to force log in
using the temporary password
and therefore force IAM security.
And alternatively,
if you don't have the user that already exists,
you can use the GetClusterCredentials Autocreate option
to create a new user database
every time you connect.
If you want to create a read only user,
you would add this user to a group
that has read only privileges
for the specified schema of your database.
But you still need to initially specify all
of the schema names and then modify the group
for any new schemas you may create.
So that's it for Redshift permissions.
Hopefully that makes sense
and that may be one question at the exam maybe.
So I don't wanna spend too much time on it
but I hope you liked it
and I will see you in the next lecture.